.\" FirstAidKit 
.TH "FirstAidKit" "1"
.SH "NAME" FirstAidKit
.BR
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
firstaidkit [options] [-a | --auto] [fix | FLOW ]
.br
firstaidkit [options] [-f | --flow ] PLUGIN FLOW
.br
firstaidkit [options] --print-config
.br
firstaidkit [options] --list
.br
firstaidkit [options] --info <plugin>

.BR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Firstaidkit executes simple and common recovery tasks in an automated way. The basic
elements in the system are: backend plugin system, the plugins, the plugin
flows and plugin tasks.  The plugins can be thought of as individual
recovery processes.  There can be a plugin for password recovery for example.
A plugin task is an individual step in the recovery proces of a given plugin.
To continue with the password example, a task for this plugin could be a process
that changes the root passwd or a process that checks if there is a password in
/etc/passwd.  Finally we have the flows.  These are structures that organize the
different tasks in a plugin.  There could be, for example, a "fast" flow that
just changes the passwd without checking /etc/passwd, there could also be a
"strict" flow that checks for the existence of /etc/passwd and modifies the
passwd based on what it found in the first task.

Firstaidkit also has a CLI that lets you control firstaidkits behavior. The execution
of firstiadkit has 6 modes of operation:

.IP "Automated Default. -a, --auto"
This mode runs all the plugins that firstaidkit can detect in the paths
(The paths can be set in the config file).  It will run the flow denomintated
"diagnose" for all these plugins.  When a plugin does not have a diagnose
flow (Some plugins like passwd don't have it), it will be ignored.  The
general idea with this mode is to see what is going on in different parts
of the system.  The behavior of this mode can be modified by passing  on of
two parameters: The flow name or "fix".

When fix is specified, it will run the fix flow of all the plugins.  This is
*not* the default behavior because this might not be what the user wants.
A more sensible approach is to list the possible problems and then for the
user to run individual plugins to address all of the listed problems or a
subset of them.

When FLOW is specified, the flow named FLOW is run in each plugin.  As with
the default behavior, the plugin is ignored when the flow is not there.

.IP "Flow Selection. -f PLUGIN FLOW, --flow PLUGIN FLOW"
Basically lets you specify the plugin to run and the flow that you want to
run on that plugin.

.IP "Print Configuration. --print-config"
Lists the resulting configuration.  Firstaidkit allows you to specify configuration
elements in a lot of places.  This options just lests you see what firstaidkit
ends up with after analyzing all the configuration elements.

.IP "List Plugins. --list"
Make a list of all the plugins.

.IP "Individual Plugin Info. --info PLUGIN"
Get information fro a specific plugin.

.PP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.IP "-c PATH, --config=PATH"
Location of configuration file.
.IP "-r PATH, --root=PATH"
Location of the root directory.
.IP "-v, --verbose"
Verbose mode.
.IP "-l METHOD, --log=METHOD"
Select METHOD as a log method.
.IP "-x PLUGIN, --exclude=PLUGIN"
Exclude PLUGIN from the run.
.IP "-g GUI, --gui=GUI"
Select GUI as front end to show results.
.IP "-h, --help"
Show help.
.IP "-F FLAG, --flag=FLAG"
Setup startup flags.

.PP
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.nf
For most of the situations its probably better to execute
the plugins individually.  You manage this by using the -f
option.
.fi
.IP "firstaidkit -f xserver diagnose"
Execute the diagnose flow in a specific plugin.  This line
will execute the xserver plugin in diagnose mode.
.IP "firstaidkit -a diagnose --nodeps"
Execute all plugins without dependencies.  this will execute
all plugins without looking at the dependencies between them.
This is good if you want a general diagnose of the system.
.IP "firstaidkit --print-config"
List the configuration.
.IP "firstaidkit --list"
List of plugins.
.IP "firstaidkit --info xserver"
Request a specific info from a plugin.
.IP "firstaidkit -a -e xserver"
Exclude a plugin from an action.  This will execute every plugin
except the xserver.

.PP
.SH "BUGS"
.nf
Please report bugs at http://fedorahosted.org/firstaidkit/newticket
.fi

.PP
.SH "AUTHORS"
.nf
Martin Sivak <msivak@redhat.com>
Joel Granados <jgranado@redhat.com>
.fi

.PP
.SH "FILES"
.nf
/etc/firstaidkit.conf
.fi

.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nf
http://fedorahosted.org/firstaidkit
.fi
