.TH "FirstAidKit Flags" "1" 
.SH "NAME" firstaidkit-flags
.BR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This man page tries to describe the flags that must be used to creat plugins for firstaidkit
It describes all flags you can use as dependencies in plugins.
The general structure of flag name is category_subsystem_part_lowerpart_...
For every level of the hierarchy should exist FlagTrackerPlugin which will set the master flags, when everything is OK.

.SH "experimental"
  Flag denoting plugin as experimental and not to be run except in testing environment and by advanced users.
  Do not provide in any plugin! Dependency flag only!

.SH "unsafe"
 This plugin works, but can cause damage when the planets are badly aligned. Run only if you know what are you doing.
 Do not providein any plugin! Dependency flag only!

.SH "root"
 This plugin has to run in root environment. Dependency flag only!

.SH "arch-x86"
I'm running on x86 machine. Dependency flag only!  There may be set also the subtype flags: arch-i?86, arch-x86_64

.SH "arch-ppc"
I'm running on ppc machine. Dependency flag only!  There may be set also the subtype flags: arch-ppc64

.SH "arch-s390"
I'm running on ppc machine. Dependency flag only!  There may be set also the subtype flags: arch-s390x

.SH "storage"
  All storage related tests ran with Not applicable or OK results

.SH "storage_lvm"
  LVM is present and OK

.SH "storage_md"
  MD is present and OK

.SH "storage_<filesystem name>"
  All filesystems of this type are OK

.SH "storage_layout"
  Direstory structure of installed box is OK

.SH "boot"
  All tests for bootable box ran with Not applicable or OK results

.SH "boot_grub"
.SH "boot_lilo"
  Bootloader is present and OK

.SH "boot_kernel"
.SH "boot_initrd"
  The booting kernel/initrd pair is present and OK

.SH "boot_kernel_modules"
  All checked modules are present and OK

.SH "boot_kernel_modules_<modulename>"
  Module is present and supposed to work

.SH "network"
  All network related tests ran with Not applicable or OK results

.SH "network_link"
.SH "network_hostname"
.SH "network_hosts"
.SH "network_dhcp"
.SH "network_dns"
.SH "network_firewall"
  Part of network configuration was checked and appears OK

.SH "rpm"
.SH "rpm_consistent"
  RPM database is in OK state and contains the right information
.SH "rpm_lowlevel"
  RPM database has all required files and databases working

.SH "SEE ALSO"
http://fedorahosted.org/firstaidkit

.SH "AUTHORS"
Martin Sivak <msivak@redhat.com>
Joel Granados <jgranado@redhat.com>

.SH "BUGS"
Please search/report bugs at http://fedorahosted.org/firstaidkit/newticket
